README.md, before:

# Dijkstra/A* Mapper
Visualize pixel maps or mazes, and test Dijkstra/A\* algorithms to find the shortest path between two points on the map. 
This project is part of a biannual report for Paris Cité University.

## Context
This project is an exercise that forms part of the semester report in the *Advanced Algorithms* course.
It introduces the basics of graphs and shortest path search algorithms for weighted graph, 
which may represent a road network or a maze.
It also helps to visualize each step of these algorithms, even for those who are not
into this filed.

Please note that some parts of this project cannot be modified $-$ even if better implementation choices could be made $-$
in order to respect the initial instructions of the exercise.
This applies, for example, to the format of the map configuration files or the use of AWT/Swing as GUI library.

## Requirements
Please ensure your environment meets the following requirements:
1. JDK 16 or higher must be installed on your machine. 
You can download the latest JDK from the [OpenJDK website](https://openjdk.org).
2. This project uses AWT and Swing for the GUI: these libraries are included by default in the JDK,
so no additional installations are required.
3. This project is platform-independent and can run on any OS that support JDK 16+, such as Windows, macOS or Linux.

## Build and Execution
- Ensure your `PATH` environment variable includes the JDK `bin` directory for command-line compilation and execution.
- Use the following commands to compile and run the project:
```bash
javac -d out/production/dijkstra-a_star-mapper/ src/**/*.java
java -cp out/production/dijkstra-a_star-mapper/ Main
```

## Demo
A\* algorithm on a complex map (you can find its configuration file [here](assets/examples/test.txt))

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1b0382c-7619-41cf-b10b-c025f00e2edd

Plain text color names (`red`, `green`, etc.) dans color codes in hexadecimal format (`#FF1EA3`, `222`) are supported. 
This makes your maps even more *beautiful*, like this heart (configuration file [here](assets/examples/heart.txt)).

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19b4aedb-4b32-42f6-9caf-813eb8cb899d

Commit message:

add "map configuration" to README.md

README.md, after:

# Dijkstra/A* Mapper
Visualize pixel maps or mazes, and test Dijkstra/A\* algorithms to find the shortest path between two points on the map. 
This project is part of a biannual report for Paris Cité University.

## Context
This project is an exercise that forms part of the semester report in the *Advanced Algorithms* course.
It introduces the basics of graphs and shortest path search algorithms for weighted graph, 
which may represent a road network or a maze.
It also helps to visualize each step of these algorithms, even for those who are not
into this filed.

Please note that some parts of this project cannot be modified $-$ even if better implementation choices could be made $-$
in order to respect the initial instructions of the exercise.
This applies, for example, to the format of the map configuration files or the use of AWT/Swing as GUI library.

## Requirements
Please ensure your environment meets the following requirements:
1. JDK 16 or higher must be installed on your machine. 
You can download the latest JDK from the [OpenJDK website](https://openjdk.org).
2. This project uses AWT and Swing for the GUI: these libraries are included by default in the JDK,
so no additional installations are required.
3. This project is platform-independent and can run on any OS that support JDK 16+, such as Windows, macOS or Linux.

## Build and Execution
- Ensure your `PATH` environment variable includes the JDK `bin` directory for command-line compilation and execution.
- Use the following commands to compile and run the project:
```bash
javac -d out/production/dijkstra-a_star-mapper/ src/**/*.java
java -cp out/production/dijkstra-a_star-mapper/ Main
```

## Map configuration
The map description must be given in a file with a precise format. Examples are available [here](assets/examples).
Sections are marked with `==` on either side of their name (like `==this==`). Subsections are marked with
only one `=` on both sides of their name (like `=that=`).
- The first line indicates the beginning of the first section `metadata`. 
Metadata ara the values used to initialize and configure the map.
  - On the second line is indicated the beginning of the subsection `size`.
    The values specified in the next 2 lines represent the map size.
    - `nlines` is the number of pixel lines in the map. Let's note this number $l$.
    - `ncol` is the number of pixel columns in the map. Let's note this number $c$.
  - On the fifth line is indicated the beginning of the subsection `types`.
  The next lines will be a succession of keywords associated with integer numerical values, 
  followed by a color name just below. This is the configuration of the weight of each vertex
  (in more graphics and non-technicals terms, this represents the time it takes to traverse each
  type of surface, such as water, earth, sand, etc., see a [surface example](assets/examples/test.txt)) and their associated color.
    - `[a-zA-Z] = integer` then, on the next line, the `color name` 
    (common english names and hexadecimal codes are both supported)
- The second section is called `graph`. The $l$ lines following its declaration are the most important, as they provide
the very structure of the graph (i.e. the way the map will look).
  - On each line $l_i$ with $i \in \{0, \dots, l\}$, there must be **exactly** $c$ characters, so that the vertex at $(x,y)$ on the map is the character
  in line $x$ and position $y$ on that line. This vertex will be the $x \times c + y$ vertex of the graph.
- The last section, called `path`, configures the start point and the end point.
  - `start = xs,ys` with $x_s < l$ and $y_s < c$.
  - `finish = xf,yf` with $x_f < l$, $y_f < c$ and $(x_f, y_f) \neq (x_s, y_s)$.

## Demo
A\* algorithm on a complex map (you can find its configuration file [here](assets/examples/test.txt))

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1b0382c-7619-41cf-b10b-c025f00e2edd

Plain text color names (`red`, `green`, etc.) dans color codes in hexadecimal format (`#FF1EA3`, `222`) are supported. 
This makes your maps even more *beautiful*, like this heart (configuration file [here](assets/examples/heart.txt)).

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19b4aedb-4b32-42f6-9caf-813eb8cb899d
